.NET Core

Subset (cross platform) da .NET Framework (Windows)

COMANDOS .NET CLI:
dotnet --version

dotnet new list

dotnet new console -n <nome>

dotnet build


PRACTICE QUIZ:
1. What is .NET Core?
    A cross-platform, open-source framework for building modern, cloud-based, and internet-connected applications

2. What is the difference between .NET Framework and .NET Core?
    .NET Framework is primarily used for Windows desktop applications while .NET Core is designed for modern, cloud-based, and internet-connected applications

3. What is .NET Core Version History?
    .NET Core has been released in multiple versions

4. How do you set up a development environment for .NET Core using Visual Studio or VS Code?
    Install Visual Studio or VS Code and then install the .NET Core SDK

5. What are some features of .NET Core?
    .NET Core is open-source, cross-platform, and includes support for modern application development features like containerization and microservices

.NET CLI
dotnet <command> <argument> <option>

PRACTICE QUIZ:
1. What is the .NET CLI?
    A command-line interface for working with .NET Core

2. What command is used to create a new .NET Core console application using the .NET CLI?
    dotnet new console

3. What is the Core CLR?
    A component of the .NET Core platform that provides the runtime environment for .NET Core applications

4. What command is used to build a .NET Core application using the .NET CLI?
    dotnet build

5. What is the purpose of the dotnet new command in .NET CLI?
    To create a new project or file based on a specific template

GRADED QUIZ:
1. What is .NET CLI?
    A command-line interface used for developing, building, and managing .NET projects and applications

2. Which of the following is not a .NET CLI command?
    dotnet stop

3. Which .NET CLI command is used to add a package reference to a project?  
    dotnet add package

4. Which of the following is not part of the .NET Core platform?
    JavFX

5. What is a .NET Core console application?
    An applications that runs in the web browser

6. What is the .NET CLI used for?
    To build and run .NET applications

7. Which .NET CLI command is used to generate XML documentation for a .NET project?  
    dotnet build /p:GenerateDocumentation=true

8. Which of the following is a language compiler in .NET Core?
    Roslyn

9. What is the command used to restore dependencies for a .NET Core project?
    dotnet restore

10. Which .NET CLI command is used to remove a package reference from a project?  
    dotnet remove package

11. Which .NET CLI command is used to list all the installed SDKs? 
    dotnet --list-sdks

12. Which .NET CLI command is used to create a new class library project?  
    dotnet new classlib

13. What is the .NET CLI command to build a .NET Core project?
    dotnet build

14. Which of the following is not a language compiler supported by .NET Core?
    Java

15. Which of the following is a component of the .NET Core platform that provides a set of APIs for building applications?
    Both B and C (Core CLR and coreFX)
